semgrep 1.176.0 · booking.py · 6 defects in the key, 5 of them expressible as a pattern

config                   found  tp  fp   prec  recall
p/python + p/secrets         1   1   0   1.00    0.17
seven registry packs         4   4   0   1.00    0.67
custom taint rule            2   2   0   1.00    0.33

Nothing about the file changed between those rows. Three of the four
defects the wide run reports were simply not looked for on the narrow
one, and it exits 0 either way. A finding count with no config beside
it is not a result.

missed by every width:
   line   7  CWE-862  not-expressible  find_booking performs no authorisation check
   line  22  CWE-798  coverage-gap     live-looking API key on a module-level constant

1 coverage gap(s): a rule could match this, and nobody wrote it.
   line 22 is lexical. p/secrets was enabled and did not fire, because
   the string matches no known provider's format. That is a rule to
   write, not a reason to buy a different generation of scanner.

1 not expressible as a pattern:
   line 7 is the *absence* of a call, in a function whose caller holds
   payments scope. There is no syntax to match. No ruleset reaches it,
   at any width, ever - and that is the whole argument for the model
   pass, which is the next skill rather than a wider config.

widest recall: 0.67
Precision is 1.00 at every width. Semgrep's problem here was never
that it was wrong - it is that a third of the key was never in scope.
model backend : replay
model         : deterministic stand-in (no backend configured)

This lesson runs offline against a deterministic replay, which is why
it works on a Kaggle kernel with the internet switched off. To run the
identical code against a real model, serve an open-weight model from
Kaggle Models and point the adapter at it:

   python3 -m llama_cpp.server --model <the .gguf from Kaggle> \
           --model_alias qwen2.5-7b-instruct --port 11434 --chat_format qwen
   export OPENAI_BASE_URL=http://127.0.0.1:11434/v1 \
          MODEL=qwen2.5-7b-instruct

   MODELS.md has the exact Kaggle download. There is no paid backend:
   every model result in this repository was produced this way.

find_booking
   model says   : MISSING CWE-862 at confidence 0.82
   quoting      : def find_booking(reference):
   -> HYPOTHESIS: quote verified, status hypothesis (not a finding)

my_bookings
   model says   : MISSING CWE-89 at confidence 0.71
   quoting      : cur.execute("SELECT * FROM bookings WHERE owner = '" + user)
   -> REJECTED  : that line is not in the file

1 hypothesis · 1 rejected · 0 promoted

property checked : the model finds the missing authorisation check that no rule can express
held on replay       : True

the verifier, tested against a known fabrication
   claim quotes : cur.execute("SELECT * FROM bookings WHERE owner = '" + use
   in the file? : False
   -> REJECTED  : the quote is not in the slice, so the claim dies here

That check costs nothing and requires no judgement, and it is the single
highest-yield filter available: a claim about a line that does not exist
is provably wrong without a second opinion. B2.4 is the same check
generalised into a stage.

What the confidence number is worth: it is uncalibrated - 0.82 does not
mean the claim is right 82% of the time - and it is unstable across runs.
Sort a human's queue with it if you like. Do not let it decide anything
on its own, and note that this run is one sample of it.

Nothing here is promoted. This skill produces hypotheses; dedup,
verification, reachability and dynamic validation decide which of them
become findings. An audit stage that promotes its own output has removed
the only independent step it had.
